
# https://www.reddit.com/r/learnmath/comments/77xwib/how_to_start_learning_for_fun/

# 正文

If you want to learn for fun, I would definitely suggest reading more proof-heavy books that will make you understand the foundations rather than just being able to calculate things. Since you already have calculus, I'd highly suggest:
Getting Spivak's Calculus, Linear Algebra (by Friedberg and Insel) and Book of Proof (by Hammack).
Explanation: Spivak's Calculus will only deal with single-variable calculus, with no differential equations. But it is deeper than any other book before Rudin's book in Real Analysis and it rewards you with really cool things that you otherwise won't learn until much later (Like Bernoulli Polynomials). If you have any background in Linear Algebra at all (like know what matrices are, how to calculate the inverse of them and what a plane is), then ”Linear Algebra” is fantastic in my opinion. It is our current course literature and will right off the bat introduce you to vector spaces and linear transformations and then for the remainder of the book use these concepts to justify everything else in such as the pseudo-inverse and singular value decomposition. Just like with Spivak's book, it heavily rewards the reader that takes his or her time to work through all the assignments and is very proof-heavy. For the last book, ”Book of Proof”, I cannot recommend this enough if you ever felt like proofs, set theory and mathematical logic were either difficult or didn't feel natural. Hammack does a fantastic job introducing the reader to the basics of set theory that you will need for the first year or two in undergrad level maths before going through interesting examples of each major type of proof in mathematics. I would suggest doing this book either first or at the same time as one of the other ones to assist you with the other two more proof-heavy books. Once again you will get some (slight) rewards for doing all the exercises, as Hammack lets you try the Gamma Function without any prerequisite knowledge.
Now that you have a strong foundation:
For Analysis A multi-variable calculus book (I am currently using a Swedish one so not much help from me here), a book in complex analysis (My university uses Fundamentals of Complex Analysis by Saff and Snider) and supposedly the best book around for real analysis: ”Foundations of Mathematical Analysis” by Rudin. Now I would suggest doing these in the order of multivariable calculus -> Rudin -> complex analysis since multivariable calc is generally much easier than the other two.
For Algebra You need some discrete mathematics. Our current literature is the book by Biggs, but it is not really loved and I can see why. So see if you can find something very elementary that goes over most things that are core to discrete maths. It is now also time for a book in Abstract Algebra. Dummit and Foote is the book to go to according to everyone I speak to and it is used by the university.
3 After discrete mathematics, you should be ready for books in combinatorics and logic.
4 At any stage of your learning, I would recommend you to get some ”fun” literature as well. The Princeton Companion to Mathematics is the book when it comes to everything surrounding mathematics and if you find any field interesting you can almost always find books that aren't course literature. I, for instance, have a wonderful book called Fractals and Chaos by Benoit. B. Mandelbrot. that I found at Foyles in London many years back.
And here is where the elementary stuff is done. You should now have a fantastic base to start digging into advanced undergrad/master level books in a wide variety of topics, like elementary differential geometry and number theory. The books I have recommended are following the way courses are laid out in most universities here in Sweden and in a, in my opinion, very logical order. The most important thing, though, is of course to have fun! If you find yourself disliking one of the subjects listed, you can of course skip it if it is not a prerequisite.
Good luck with your new hobby!
