
# LEARNING FROM OBSERVATION
You may not know it but much of what you learn throughout life is imitation of what you see. When you learn to walk, as a baby, you learn because you have seen other people walk. As you grew older, you learned to look at people around you and compare yourself to them. In your teens, you probably wanted to wear the kind of clothing that kids of your age thought of as “cool” but that your parents may not have approved of. The point is that you have spent your whole life measuring yourself against others and at this stage in your life now consider yourself less worthy than those around you – for whatever reason.
<br/>

You may also have been influenced by what you saw in magazines or on the television but these are not real people. Many prepare themselves to appear on the TV and will have first class makeup artists. You may think that you are not that attractive in comparison but every day you have the opportunity to see the other side of the coin but avoid it. What we are going to suggest to you is a purposeful journey into observation. If you can find a busy café where you can sit and observe the world, this is one of the best places for this exercise.
<br/>


# Learning about the way people present themselves

If you have an image in your mind as to how you should appear, you may be being unfair to yourself. Look around you and look for the following attributes because you will see what a nonsense it is to think that you have less value than all of the people that surround you. If you think that you don’t have a boyfriend/girlfriend because you are too ugly, look at those people who have partners. They are not the beautiful people. They are simply people like you that have been fortunate enough to find others that are suitable as partners. Be realistic. The girl over there isn’t the perfect weight and yet she looks completely happy and is surrounded by friends. The man over there isn’t the most fashion conscious but he walks with confidence and people turn their heads when he passes.
<br/>

The way that you see yourself is always going to be unrealistic if you don’t see the world for what it truly is. There are people out there who are worse off than you are. Look at the old lady over there begging for someone to give her money for a cup of coffee. Her back may be bent and she may not have decent clothing like yours but she doesn’t hate herself. Her circumstances are just different to yours. Observation of others is vital because it shows you that the world in general isn’t a place where comparisons should be made. Everyone is so different that if you were to compare, it would be unfair and yet this is what you do to yourself every day of the week. All you should ever hope is that you present yourself to the world in the best way possible. Look for the following attributes in people around you:
<br/>
·         Who looks happy? <br/>
·        Who looks like he/she has confidence? <br/>
·       How do confident people approach the world?<br/>
·        Does posture have anything to do with how you see people? <br/>
·        Do people smile? <br/>
·        If they look miserable, do you see them as attractive?<br/>

The idea of this exercise is NOT comparison. The idea is OBSERVATION. By observing you can learn a great deal about what YOU may or may not be doing that you don’t particularly like. Since we have already said that it is important that you like yourself, the first place to look is at others to see what is likeable about them that you don’t do. How do they dress? How do they interact with others? Look at those people around you and then go home because the next observation you are going to do is on yourself. It’s quite important that you do these two exercises in conjunction with each other so that you can use the first experience to help you with the second experience. 
<br/>

# The Mirror Test

In this test, you need a full length mirror and should place it in your bedroom where you can see yourself clearly when you enter the bedroom door. Having posed your mirror, now go out of the room and enter. As you do, look and observe yourself in the mirror and pretend that this is the first time you have seen this person that you are looking at. Do you slouch? Do you look in a downward direction? What are you doing with your hands? How are you dressed? Look at your hair. Is it nicely brushed and neat? Look at your skin. Is it in tip top condition? The point of doing this is to see who you are at the moment. You don’t like yourself very much but all of that is about to change. You need to present yourself to the world in a way that you find acceptable because once you are comfortable about the way that you present yourself, you lose a little part of that self-esteem problem. This is the physical look rather than looking at what’s going on inside of you.
<br/>
Now look at how you can improve your look. Perhaps you walk with your shoulders down. What you learned from watching people was how people that have confidence walk. They will have their shoulders back. Their head will look straight ahead. They will have a confident look on their faces but do you think they were always like that. Go out of the room and consciously practice that look and see for yourself how different you look when you enter a room with an air of confidence. People are much more drawn to you as a personality because you are not giving all the body language that you are needy and have psychological problems. Now try walking into the room and sitting. Again, do this naturally as you normally would and observe how different your stance is to that of people who have confidence in themselves. When you have self-esteem issues, you tend to not worry about your posture. You don’t take care of the way that you sit and you are likely to slump. Now, do it again being aware of your posture and the smile on your face. You should look happy, rather than ridiculously grinning and should hold your head high. From this exercise you can gather than what you are depends upon what you show people. What people see is what they judge you upon. If they see you as the timid mouse who slouches about and needs too much attention all of the time, you alienate people. If, however, you have the air of confidence and can display yourself as being confident by your stature, their approach to you is different. It’s not all about looks but the way that people behave toward you is as a direct consequence of what you present them with. You also need to learn about posture for the meditation exercises in a later chapter, but it’s a good time to start practicing the way that you look because this helps you to gain confidence in yourself as well as helping others to see you for the true person that you are. You are not pretending. You are merely making the most of yourself and presenting yourself in a way that people see as positive, rather than negative. Most of your experiences with self-esteem will have come about not because of the actions of other people, but because of the way that you interact with those people. There is no blame here. You need to accept that everyone is trying to get through life in the best way that they know how, but if they are faced with someone with negative thoughts about themselves, they can see straight through it and will treat you very differently from someone who has a little pride and takes care of their appearance. It therefore makes sense that the first step you take on the road toward discovering the new you comes from your posture, your approach and the way that you interact with others.

# BREATHING AND RELAXATION

You may wonder why I am introducing this aspect now. There is a very good reason. If you are learning how to present yourself to others, you still won’t have learned to relax in their presence and chances are that your self-esteem issues stop you from feeling relaxed at all. Breathing comes into the picture as well because hyperventilating can make you panic in social situations so if you have learned techniques to counter that, this will help you to feel better about those situations and much more likely to cope when faced with them. You will also need to learn to breathe correctly when you try meditation and this will help you considerably to see yourself for who you really are. Meditation is all about dropping all your convictions that you are not worthy and seeing yourself in the exact moment that you are in. That means forgetting about past mistakes because the past has gone. It also means dropping worries about the future because that hasn’t happened yet. The idea of meditation is to try and allow your mind and body to feel at one with one another and that actually includes an element of self-love which will take you some training to master. I have devoted another chapter to that, but for the moment, we need you to learn to relax and to breathe in the correct manner, so that you get sufficient relaxation time. This will help you to sleep well and to be able to cope with a lot of things that you find a trial at the moment. <br/>

Lie down on the bed and make sure that you only use one pillow. This is to give your airways room for air to go in and out without any kind of strain. Breathe in through the nose and then hold the breath for a moment and breathe out through the mouth. Place your hand on your upper abdomen because when you are breathing correctly and have a nice rhythm to your breathing, you will feel a pivoting motion in this area. Breathe in, hold the breath for a moment and breathe out. Repeat this, until you feel that rhythm in your body. Try to think about nothing except for the breathing so if you need to close your eyes to do this, then that’s fine. Many people breathe through their mouths because they smoke and it seems like it’s more natural, whereas breathing through the nose stops all of the toxins in the air from getting into the body. You have hairs in your nose which act as filters that stop all of the toxins in the air getting into your body. If you can try to make it a habit to breathe in through your nose, it doesn’t matter if you exhale from your mouth or your nose.

# Exercise in relaxation

Often the reason that you cannot sleep properly is because you cannot relax. Thus, if you learn a relaxation system, this will help you. If you have self-esteem issues and are not sleeping, you will feel even more stressed than normal because, as we have already said, the routine of sleep is necessary to let your body and mind heal overnight so that you face each day as a strong person. Thus, if you learn relaxation, you can either do this at bedtime or you can use it when you feel that you need extra help with your relaxation because of stressors in your life. Start to breathe in the way that we showed you until you get that rhythm going where you have the movement in your upper abdomen. Now close your eyes. The idea of the exercise is to think of each part of the body one at a time. First start with your toes. Tense them and feel them tense up and then relax them. You work through your body in this way, tensing and then relaxing all the parts of your body, including ankles, knees, thighs, hips, chest, etc. and then up your arms from your hands, your neck and your head. When you have done this, you will be very relaxed indeed. Try not to think of other things. Concentrate on the parts of the body and the relaxation that follows the tenseness. If you find your mind wandering, go back to your toes and start over. If it helps you to have relaxation music very softly playing in the background, then there are many that you can buy at music stores, but this really shouldn’t be the focus. This is merely to help you to relax. The atmosphere of the room is important. I always close the drapes so that I am in semi-darkness because this helps the whole body to relax. It is also important that you don’t have noises in the background, so if your TV is on in another room but the noise is heard in the bedroom, turn it off. If you live with other people, you need to make them aware that you need a bit of quiet time. This is vital and helps you to find that relaxation that you need and if you really do have trouble sleeping, this can do the trick and send you off to sleep. Thus, it may be a good idea to do this in your night clothes. Whatever you choose to wear, it should be non-restrictive as that would cause an unnecessary distraction. When you want to get up after your relaxation, remember that your heart rate will have gone down and that your blood pressure will have lowered. This is normal. You should not try to stand up quickly, but take your time getting up from the exercise, perhaps reflecting on how you feel and what you can do next time that will make the exercise easier or more effective.
