Rule 11: Be nice to nerds. Chances are you'll end up working for one

Be nice to everyone, your boss, your co-workers, your teachers, your classmates, your friends, your family, strangers and even beggars on the street.  Chances are you will never know if you will be working for them, with them or get leads to kick-start your career from them.

Nerds: term not found in my Collin Gem dictionary but according to wiki it is “being overly intellectual, obsessive, or socially impaired”

I understand now why nerds are bosses according to Bill Gates and this definition.  I can use that term to describe first-born, who do act bossy when playing with their peers and siblings.  Seeking those individuals to be bosses may be wise in Uncle Bill’s times, might not so in yours.  In his times stability and loyalty prevails, first-born and nerds tend to exhibits these traits.  In your generation, your standard of a leader is high, as it should be, you seek not just competency, beauty, and person of good character, you seek also creative individuals who make work ‘fun’, a benevolent leader, a leader who grew up watching anime, playing games or listening to kPop with you but had the ambition to study hard and mastered technology – a geek like Steve Jobs. With the stresses that will come your way as you manage million or even billion dollars accounts this is understandable.  Such a person is hard to raise up.  It not only requires natural talents and innate personality, but a wise parent who will cultivate those talents into fruitation.  Sometimes, the parent may not see that individual as such and thus ignores them.  Such a leader also tends to be children who are rebellious, expressive and strong will but have acquired the self-control to manage these traits well.  No parents I know in the past and present like dealing with these children.  How sad to let such talent go lost! I guess this is why you do not vote.  In my life I am lucky to have encountered such a person.  Oddly, she has no ambition to lead.  Those are the best leaders, because they genuinely care about matters of life, not working for their selfish ambition but yours. I guess Obama is voted in office because he displays this genuineness in conduct and speech. I pray he is competent though or at least wise enough to have caring competent people around him. If you cannot find such a leader do not be discouraged.  Try your best to be one or notice one and raise one up.  Do be nice to everyone, especially toward your peers, elders and the children your encounter and influence each day, not just nerds.
