Rule 10: Television is NOT real life. In real life people actually have to leave the coffee shop and go to jobs.
Television is where writer scripts become visual.  Yes some shows and movies are based in the fantasy world, some are over dramatized and some may seem unrealistic to our own personal experience in life.  But I know this fact, writers write with the intention to speak the Truth of life or the truths they see in their own life and try to put a sensitive topic into entertaining stories so that people may be aware of them and more accepting of their reality.  Just look at shows like Will and Grace or Korean Dramas or Hunger Games.  Of course they are not real life but in them you discover a part of humanity that is real, our nature to cry at soppy storylines, our desire for romance, and our need for action.  And yes, maybe in real life some people do have to leave the coffee shop to go to jobs like characters in Friends, but not everyone.  J.K. Rowling’s office was at a coffee shop where she got inspired and captured by Harry Potter.  Barista works in coffee shops. Thus, store managers and pastry cooks.  Imagine if they leave the coffee shop!  Still not convinced that most people do work in coffee shops these days?  Ask you sales representatives where they meet potential customers and long time clients for chats and relationship building?  Ask your boss where he goes to de-cafe every morning as he plans out his routine?  Ask a lawyer where their preferred meeting place of work?  If you are still not convince, schedule a work day in the coffee shop, try it out and see.  It is not empty in there, not even at 10AM where everyone supposed to be at their job.  Okay, do not let their boss know they are there if you learned that they do their most productive work in the coffee shop than in the office.  They may have bosses who believe in rule 10.
